


This procedure outlines the steps for identifying and processing surplus materials owned by the school district so that they can be donated, discarded, or resold. This ensures compliance with district policies, supports an efficient use of resources, and provides opportunities to support students and the community. 
● Identification of Surplus Materials 
● Determination of Donate, Discard, or Resell 
● Approval Process 
● Preparation for Removal 
● Documentation and Record Keeping 
District Staff (Originators of Surplus): 
● School Principals: Initiate the surplus documentation, oversee textbook identification and ensure compliance with SOP. 
● Teachers, Library Media, & Department Chairs: Identify textbooks and texts that are outdated or no longer in use or needed by T&L or the schools, provide accurate descriptions of the surplus materials. Assist in the preparation of materials for donation, discard, and reselling. Label boxes appropriately and as appropriate remove from Destiny. 
● IT & Library Staff: Maintain inventory records and update the system to reflect disposed materials. 
Teaching and Learning Administrators: 
● Executive Director of Secondary and Elementary Education: Review and approve textbook removal requests and assess potential for repurposing, share plans with T&L Admin Assistant. Consult with staff on the most appropriate method of disposal (donation, sale, or disposal). Maintain accurate records of surplus materials and their disposition for Board submission. 
● Facilities & Operations Staff: Manage the logistics of textbook removal and disposal.
● Finance Office: Ensure any financial implications are documented. 
Identification of Curriculum Surplus Materials: 
● District staff identify materials within their department or school that are no longer needed for operational purposes. This may include, but is not limited to: 
○ Equipment (ie, science labs) 
○ Supplies (ie, math manipulatives) 
○ Textbooks 
○ Classroom books 
○ Library Materials 
● Staff evaluate disposal options 
○ Redistribution: Check if books can be repurposed within the district. 
○ Donation: Offer textbooks to students, other schools, educational nonprofits, or community programs. 
○ Resale: If a textbook/program has remaining life and if a classroom set of books is in a condition for continued use, designate as resale. 
○ Disposal or Recycle: If no other options are viable, arrange for proper discard procedures. 
● Teachers, library media, and department chairs compile a list of books no longer in use on the provided sheet and communicate the updates to the list to the assigned school principal or their designee (potentially department chair) for initial review. 
● The Executive Directors of Elementary or Secondary Education approve items on the list prior to submission to the Board of Education. 
Surplus Submission: 
● The staff members complete the surplus materials sheet, providing the following information: 
○ Date 
○ Contact Name 
○ Book/Curricular Program Title 
○ Author 
○ Quantity 
○ ISBN, as applicable for resale only 
○ Barcode Number or range of numbers, as applicable 
○ Box Number 
○ Checkmarks for Resale, Discard, Donate, as appropriate 
● The surplus materials for donation or discard can be organized as bulk information, ie, LLI Level 1 materials, guided reading library texts, etc.
● Teachers, library/media, and department chairs should determine the condition of texts for potential resale or discard. As a result, some may be discarded while others can be resold. 
● If item(s) are able to be resold (typically only textbooks and full classroom sets of reading materials), they need to be boxed and a corresponding list of all items, including ISBN numbers, need to be provided with each box. 
Review and Approval: 
● Assigned building principal and T and L administrators review the designation for donation, discard, and resale, and address any concerns 
● The designated T and L administrative assistant submits the surplus materials to the Board of Education for approval. 
● After Board approval, assigned building staff begin preparation for donation, discard, and resale. 
Preparation for Donation, Discard and Resale: 
● For items designated for donation: 
○ Materials should be cleaned, organized, and books should be stamped "No Longer the Property of Lindbergh Schools." 
○ Donations may be made to: 
■ Students within the district 
■ Other districts or educational institutions 
■ Non-profit organizations 
■ Community groups 
● For items designated as discard: 
○ Box like materials together (ie, textbooks and novels vs. equipment) - because of recycling, no equipment can be boxed with paper-based materials 
○ Label boxes as discard, noting if books only or other equipment 
● Preparation for resale: 
○ Box materials and label box for resale 
○ Include a list of materials and ISBNs by box 
■ Library may use a Destiny print out as the attachment 
■ Ensure that this information is attached to each box, corresponding boxes to the list 
Removal Process: 
● School principal, or principal designee, completes a work order for pick up ● *Library Processing Administrative Assistant will also create Work Orders ● Within the work order, clearly identify if the item is intended for discard or resell ● Ensure preparation has been completed as outlined above 
● Logistics & Execution
○ School principal, or principal designee, submits Work Order with Facilities. ○ Facilities staff coordinate pick-up and implement approved disposal plan. ○ Inventory staff update records to reflect removed materials. 
○ Document all disposed books for audit purposes. 
● The SOP is communicated to all principals, administrative assistants, department chairs, library media specialists and facilities staff annually. 
● Staff training sessions are conducted as needed. 
● Any changes to the SOP are shared via district-wide email and staff meetings. 
● Surplus Materials Sheet - 25/26 SY 
● Local recycling centers or vendors 
● Nonprofit organizations for textbook donations 
● District waste management contacts 
● State and federal disposal guidelines
