


Align district field trip expectations and student access across the district 
● Principal - Approve field trips using the guidelines below 
● Lead Teacher - Plan field trips using the guidelines below 
● Building Admin Assistant - Arrange buses and code budgets appropriately ● STEM Projects Coordinator - Ensure ongoing access to guaranteed field trips, supporting lead teachers, building admin assistants, and principals 
There are two types of field trips: guaranteed experiences across the district and paid for by district/building budgets, and school-approved, which are determined at each individual school and paid for by families. 
Guaranteed Field Trip Experiences: Each year, students in grades K-8 will have a universal curricular experiential learning opportunity which includes place-based learning that is directly connected to priority standards at no cost to students. See: Guaranteed Field Trips, 25-26 
● Building budget: Entrance fees for experience 
● District budget: Transportation fees 
Each building will assign a lead teacher per grade level to coordinate the field trip. The lead teacher will: 
● fill out the district Field Trip Request Form 
○ To be used by teachers for ALL student activities that occur off-campus ○ Receipt provided to building administrative assistants, nurses, area coordinators, and principals 
○ Please notify the administrative assistant in your building if the total cost will be over $500, so a purchase order can be entered. 
● follow regular school field trip booking procedures


● schedule and book the field trip for their grade level team or ask the building ● send the field trip invoice to and request buses from the building admin assistant ● communicate with building principal, building admin assistant, the STEM Programs Coordinator, and teachers across the district as needed 
● collaborate with teachers on a communication and volunteer/chaperone plan for families ● following the field trip, fill out the Guaranteed Field Trip Feedback form 
Building Field Trip Goals: Field trips scheduled at the building level should enrich academic learning, providing students with engaging opportunities that are connected to design-thinking and/or project-based learning experiences directly related to district curriculum. 
Questions to Consider When Designing School-approved Field Trips: ● Why are we planning this field trip? 
● Have students had similar learning experiences in their educational career? ● Is this an experience that furthers student learning? 
● How does the field trip offer an authentic and relevant learning experience? ● How does the field trip connect to curriculum that is rich and engaging? ● Does the field trip serve as a part of the learning process as opposed to a culminating activity? 
● Does the field trip cause a time and/or financial burden for families? 
● How will you ensure every student can fully participate in the experience (consider cost, academic accommodations, etc.)? 
Limitations for School-approved Field Trips: 
● Maximum cost of $30 per year per student, including cost for transportation, with building or PTO funds covering any students who are unable to attend due to cost 
● For special event opportunities, such as camps, provide fundraising opportunities to support family participation 
● Access for every student (no prerequisites) 
● Celebration field trips only for school transition years (5th, 8th, 12th) 
Field Trip Request Form 
● To be used by teachers for ALL student activities that occur off-campus ● Receipt provided to building administrative assistants, nurses, area coordinators, and principals


● Please notify the administrative assistant in your building if the total cost will be over $500, so a purchase order can be entered. 
The STEM Program Coordinator will: 
● Ensure access to the SOP on the district intranet. 
● Share field trip updates at district leadership meetings, including teacher feedback, proposed changes, and increases in cost. 
● Schedule discussions with grade level teachers following field trips when teacher feedback expresses a pattern of concern. 
25-26 Universal Field Trips Launchpad 
Overnight Field Trip Documentation
