


Clarify approval and communication protocols for school-sponsored student travel opportunities 
● Chief Academic Officer - Approves district-level opportunities for school-sponsored student excursions 
● Principal - Approves building-level opportunities for school-sponsored student excursions 
● Sponsor - Certified school employee responsible for coordinating student excursions, including travel arrangements, adherence to school policies and procedures, and communications related to the experience 
● Co-Sponsor - Required school employee who will serve as a chaperone on the trip 
● Minimum of 2 staff members: 1 certified Lindbergh teacher sponsor + 1 school employee *In the event of an accident/incident, one sponsor can attend to the injured student while the other stays with the group. 
● Sponsors may plan 1 trip every 12 months. 
1. Contact the Building Principal to discuss the proposed trip and its educational outcomes. 2. Complete the Lindbergh Travel Application with appropriate signatures. Trips must not be announced to students until administrative approval is received. 


● Teacher/Student Ratios: Ratios must be appropriate for the age group and travel conditions. The principal and if necessary, Chief Academic Officer, will approve the supervision plan. 
● Parents must be notified in advance of: 
○ Staff/student ratios, recommended maximum of 20:1 at secondary. 
○ Non-employee adults accompanying the group (background checks and signed code of conduct required). 
● Alcohol/Substance Policy: Adults supervising students may not consume alcohol or use substances that impair judgment at any time during the trip. 
● Parents must be informed if students will be unsupervised at any time. Expectations must be communicated in writing and during orientation meetings. 
1. Student Selection: Criteria must be clear, equitable, and applied equally to all Lindbergh students. 
○ Seniors may not attend summer trips after graduation, unless building principal makes an exception. 
○ Selection will be managed by the principal and sponsor. 
○ For multi-school trips, student selection must follow a consistent process across schools. 
2. Special Needs: 
○ Sponsors must review each child’s 504/IEP status in Infinite Campus as well has health care plans and contact case managers/school nurse to ensure 
accommodations and supports. 
○ As needed, detail individual student supports on the Disability Needs Travel Form. 
3. Disqualification: Students may be disqualified for reasons such as: 
○ Discipline issues (past or current). 
○ Academic concerns. 
○ Health and wellness issues. 
○ Disqualification decisions will be communicated to families promptly. 
4. Deadlines: All forms, medical information, and passports must be submitted 60 days prior to departure. Failure to meet this deadline will result in the student’s removal, with financial responsibility falling on the family.


● Lindbergh Schools' Policies are in effect during the entire trip, including: ○ Student Code of Conduct. 
○ Policy on Alcohol, Drugs, and Nicotine. 
● Staff, sponsors, parents and students must sign to acknowledge understanding of the Code of Conduct and the consequences. 
● If disciplinary action requires a student to return home: 
○ Parents must arrange and pay for the student’s return within 48 hours. ○ Sponsors will not escort students home. 
● Student Meetings: Prepare students for cultural, behavioral, and logistical expectations. ● Parent Meetings: Held before deposit collection. Topics include: 
○ Itinerary and contacts. 
○ Packing, medications, and health preparation. 
○ Conduct expectations, emergencies, and free time. 
● Participation in meetings is required. 
● Submit a specific itinerary with on-site contacts, phone numbers, and student/parent contact lists to the principal and if necessary, the Chief Academic Officer. 
● Sponsors must carry: 
○ A cell phone with an international plan. 
○ Copies of all student forms, health profiles, and emergency contact information. ● Sponsors will communicate with families via approved Lindbergh platforms (e.g., email, trip websites). 
● Travel Insurance: Families must purchase travel insurance via the travel partner agency. ● Health Insurance: Students are required to have medical insurance. Costs may be included in travel fees.


● All trip-related funds (including fundraising revenue) and expenditures must flow through a district activity account. A purchase order is required in advance of all spending. The purchase orders are preauthorization for all program expenditures. Contact the building administrative assistant to find out what district activity account to use. Sponsors are prohibited from handling any funds directly. 
● Cash Advance for Tips: Student fees will include tips. 
● Copies of Passports (2) 
● Traveler Health and Medical Profile (includes emergency treatment consent) ● Disability Needs Travel Planning Form 
● Health Insurance Cards (2) 
● Student Code of Conduct 
● Emergency Contact Information 
● Room Assignments 
● Notarized Permission to Travel with Minor Child 
● Release of Liability Form 
● Complete Itinerary 
● Sponsors will consult with Lindbergh’s Lead Nurse at least 6 weeks prior to the trip to ensure appropriate first aid supplies are available. 
● Sponsors will: 
○ Maintain communication with Lindbergh administration for emergencies or major incidents. 
○ Carry and manage all necessary forms and documents. 


● Lindbergh reserves the right to cancel trips if student health or safety is at risk. In such cases, travel partner policies will apply. 
● Lindbergh is not liable for medical expenditures or loss of funds. 
This SOP ensures that Lindbergh School District-sponsored trips are well-planned, safe, and aligned with district policies and expectations. 
Sponsors who receive approval for their student travel opportunities will have access to the Lindbergh email and facilities to communicate with families about the experience. 
This SOP will be shared with building principals and reviewed at faculty meetings for initial rollout. As needed, it will be reviewed with staff. 
Overnight Field Trip Paperwork
