


To establish a standardized procedure for collecting and storing curriculum materials from elementary, middle, and high schools within Lindbergh Schools at the end of each academic year. 
Scope: This SOP applies to our T&L Department, school principals, teachers, and 'Materials Inventory Point Person' as designated by the building principal at each school. 
1. Teaching and Learning Department 
● Executive Director of Elementary Education: 
○ Oversee the collection and storage process for elementary schools. 
● Administrative Assistant: 
○ Coordinate with T&L Literacy Coordinator and principals and point persons to ensure compliance with timelines. 
○ Maintain documentation and records of collected materials. 
○ Assist with communications and deadline reminders. 
2. School Principals: 
● Appoint a 'Materials Inventory Point Person' for the building. 
● Ensure teachers follow the timeline and instructions for material collection. ● Verify the final inventory after packing and before materials leave the classroom. 
3. Teachers: 
● Prepare and label all curriculum materials for collection and packing. 
● Pack materials in bins with grade-specific Inventory Cover Sheets and bins provided by T&L by way of building ‘Materials Inventory Point Person.’ 
● Notify principal and 'Materials Inventory Point Person' after packing and before materials leave the classroom for sign-off. 
● Submit materials to the 'Materials Inventory Point Person' by the deadline.
4. Materials Inventory Point Person (designated by principal): 
● Distribute bins provided by T&L with grade-specific Inventory Cover Sheets to teachers. ● Coordinate with teachers to collect and move materials. 
● Verify that all materials are properly labeled, packed, and recorded. 
● Determine with principals where materials are going after packing; building storage for new teacher in same building following school year, T&L storage, disposal of surplus items *reference SOP linked under resources, etc. 
● Sign Inventory Cover Sheet with principal, arrange next move. 
● First week of May: Principals assign the 'Materials Inventory Point Person' and share names with T&L Administrative Assistant, Literacy Coordinator, and Director of Elementary Education. 
● Third week of May: point people receive guidelines, bins, and labeling instructions and distribute to teachers. Literacy Coordinator and Dir. Elem Ed develop a list of textbook resources that need to be transferred to another building due to staffing reasons. 
● Last day of school: Teachers complete material preparation and submit packed bins with Inventory Cover Sheets back to the point person. 
● Last day of school: Teacher submits completed inventory sheets and packed bins to point person and principal before check out. 
● Last day of school: Principal submits verified inventory to the central office. ● First week of June: T&L Administrative Assistant finalizes records and confirms storage. 
The Director of Elementary Education will ensure adherence to the SOP. 
Non-compliance will be addressed through follow-up communications and may involve direct support from T&L Department. 
Surplus Curricular Materials and Donate, Discard, Resell Process
Anytime Textbook Dismissal Process
